# CS370 - Current and Emerging Trends in Computer Science

In this project, I was asked to design the training model for a treasure hunt game. The goal of the treasure hunt game is to find the treasure in the most optimal pattern. We were given the code that set up the environment of the game, as well as the neural network that interacts with the game. The main goal was to complete the training function that trains an agent to win the game on each try. To do so, we implemented the Deep Q-learning method.

We were given an environment represented by an array containing values of 1 and 0, representing occupied and unoccupied cells. An agent, which in our case is a pirate, needs to make decisions (actions) on a state represented by each cell to reach the treasure in the most optimal manner. The agent receives different levels of rewards or punishments based on the action taken. The action, reward, state, previous state, and game status are all logged into memory, which is set to 100 entries. We pick 50 random values from the memory, train on these values, and repeat the process until the game is over. After the game is over, we add the game status to an array that represents the win history, and a new game is started to repeat the process. The program stops running after exhausting all free cells, in which case the model returns a win, or if we’ve reached the number of epochs that was set.

Artificial Intelligence is currently being heavily invested in, largely due to the popularity of Large Language Models like ChatGPT. Computer scientists can use platforms like PyTorch and TensorFlow to build AI models to train on various data. Advanced computer scientists can also build algorithms to make machine learning even more powerful and intelligent. Now, people can simply ask questions to a Large Language Model and gain valuable knowledge or content, like photos and videos. AI is having breakthroughs across industries such as healthcare, robotics, autonomous vehicles, etc. Despite all the excitement, there are still many concerns. People relying on AI for information could become dangerous due to biases and misinformation. Theoretically, AI can eventually do any job that is done on a computer, so the threat to jobs can be an issue. Lastly, data privacy and plagiarism are also common concerns regarding AI.
